---
path: 'three-twenty-three '
layout: blog
title: '3.23am. '
date: 2017-10-24T20:47:21.555Z
---
So I'm up writing and it's hilarious, I'm in a fucking jungle, frogs, some weird bird calls, hoots and whistles in the distance, the occasional moped, and some other ambient background noise which is usually soothing, tonight it has been rudely complemented by the local dogs who have taken it upon themselves to start a barking competition. There is a turf war going on between three residencies. After two hours of yapping, ruff fuff ruffing, the five local mutts that started the racket eventually settle down. The silence is absolute, comparatively, and then the cockerel started, but OK, it only lasted a few minutes and I settle down to sleep until, what sounded like an egg timer turned up to 11, some kind of cicada, not even in the bungalow but outside. It's useless trying to sleep. Well this is the second night on the Filipino island of Siargao, some 30,000 people in the pacific, surrounded by reef and some of the best waves in the world, and the next stop America. The first went something like this...

Getting off the plane from Cebu in Siargao was like going back in time. Small roads carved through the jungle, water buffalo grazing in the muddy field, butterflies as big as boxers hands and angelic faced kids scampering along the side of the roads between shanty stalls selling racks of strange pink liquid in one litre coke bottles.(I later find out this is not some local drink but how petrol for the motorbikes is sold). I quite clearly am in a paradise and after 30 minutes driving we arrive at Villa Solaria, a collection of bungalows and open plan dormitory nestled next to a beach and run by my Zero Waste pal called Päl (pronounced Paul), from Sweden and his Filippino manager Venice. Most of the guests are surfers on the circuit, Cloud 9, a legendary tubing thick Pacific reef wave just a few kilometres along the coast it's easy to see why. Päl has a great first night planned for us, and we go threes up on his bike, Päl, Venice and me on the back to a beach bar right next to Cloud 9. It's not quite dark but the full moon is out, bright yellow with a skirt of clouds. I dash along the wooden boardwalk which stretches some quarter of a kilometre out into the sea, and at the end is a fantastic viewing structure, overlooking Cloud 9. There are about 10 surfers still out, carving and sliding down two metre faces, it's a small day today, but nevertheless mind blowing, I think I have never seen anything so beautiful and with the sun set, the magic hour has the waves glinting dark blue and yellow from the moonlight as the surfers catch the last waves of the evening and paddle in. Back at the beach there is a BBQ with blue marlin, spicy chicken, crab, glazed pork and huge bottles of Red Horse beer, am introduced to a most fantastic looking Filipino girl who sings in a band and spontaneously breaks out into song. Everyone is constantly smiling, loads of kids are dashing about with glo sticks and the family atmosphere is so welcoming and relaxed that I'm smiling like a idiot, a grin stretched across my face and my head light from the enormous amount of beauty which is being served up to me. All of a sudden there is a thud and a splashy splitty sound, and a couple of metres away lays a big green coconut dropped out of a tree, shining in the moonlight, green and wet. Loads of selfies are being taken and I'm roped into making pictures of Venice, Päl and our beautiful new friend, Pops, she is so stunning it's impossible that she doesn't have a boyfriend, but after an hour of talking and flirting and laughing sure enough a big bruiser of a yank shows up, placing a kiss firmly on her lips and bearish arms around her. For the next 30 minutes we end up talking and he tells me about his terms of duty in Desert Storm and Afghanistan, I see pictures of his restored classic American cars and hear how after Trump there will be a liberal backlash that will fuck everything up.I don't what to make of it all and just roll with it, everyone is in great spirits and we have two more stops to make, we all jump on motorcycle and drive to a nearby bar call Offshore, where a pool table is centre stage and a long bard with an assortment of ex-pats and locals. The Ozzie landlord puts on a punk soundtrack on Spotify and we sink more beers and play pool for two or three hours. Then its back on the bikes and to another beach location called Octopus where thee is a full moon party and the closing of the venue. There are hundreds of people a mixture of surfers, locals, backpacker, the age group goes from teen to 50+ and the nationalities pretty much everyone,. Wearing my DarkEst t-shirt from Lazer and two Estonians on the beach recognise it, and vaguely me, and we get talking about Let's Do It! and the World Clean Up Sept 15th 2018. It's their last night here before they fly off to Manila and they have glowing repots of life on the island. The next four hours is all about the dance floor, the beach, and the bar, rum and colas are the equivalent of a quid and am losing track. Eventually around 5am the party is winding down, Pal and Venice have left hours ago but there are loads of moped-taxis who for around a pound will give me a lift toVilla Solaria. This night I'm in a bunk and I fall asleep almost immediately, waking around 10am to have a coffee to accompany my monster hangover and then back to bed unto the afternoon, it's some seven hours ahead of UK time and am still adjusting.

In the afternoon I walk on the beach, at low tide, the reef stretches for 200 metres before the perfect waves are breaking further out and I tentatively pick my way across the razor sharp reef rockpool gazing, each pool like a fishy metropolis, a whole fishy society who dart into holes as the scan the sky for predators. Some metres away is a heron stalking the pools. Imagine the scene from 5th Element with the flying taxis and Bruce Willis , well the pools are like this, striped fish, hairy ones, spotty fish, little crabs carrying shells, snakelike fish, all dashing frantically about. It's hypnotic to watch, the sun is beating down and there is a slight breeze. I look up and a huge eagle is soaring over my head, just some metres above me, it lazily flaps towards the trees then makes an about turn as if to show off its plummage one more time. I take it as a welcoming sign and cut back through the jungle to Villa Solaria.

There are guests playing table tennis, a French skydiver and his friend locally know as a bayot, a man but very effeminate, with little weird pointy breasts from the hormones but still a cock. For a catholic country people are super tolerant and nobody worries about anything. There are three giggly girls which work in the kitchen and look around 12 years old, but they are much older, Filipino's are really hard to age, and they almost all have no wrinkles or worry lines, and seem to either be smiling or just have a blank slightly bored expression.

Tonight I got to ride a moped for the first time, we go to Mama's Grill, a legendary bbq joint which services around 300 people from 6pm til 10pm, then everything is finished and it closes, we are in the last trench of people and its still packed, the sweet spicy sticky sauce which coats everything is delicious and but the time we've eaten load and had a beer the bill is 3 quid a head, unbelievable. I ride the bike cautiously amongst lots of other bike, there seem to be no cars on the island, only minivans, bikes, and tuktuk. On the darkened roads Päl swerves ahead of me and I see a bloody enormous crab is crossing the road, on the little tour of the south of the island we see plenty more, and also the skinny, lazy dogs which are hanging around everywhere. There is another party tonight but its only 10.30 and no-one is out yet. Every night there is a party and a location where everyone knows goes. But we decide we want to surf with the high tide early in the morning at the beach next to Villa Solaris so head back fro a real coffee (most bars just sell the three in one) and then an early night. All goes to plan except as I'm coming down the drive I misjudge the gate and the surfboard bars which are attached to all the mopeds catch the gates bending them, their tubular ams are bent out of shape a bit but otherwise no real damage apart from to my pride. We all say goodnight and I move into the upper room of one of the bungalows. Really cosy, cool temperature and meditate for an hour, read and then settle down to sleep, and then the fucking dogs start barking....
